---
title:  "Summers of 2018"
subtitle: "Random"
author: "Taapas Agrawal"
avatar: "img/authors/taapas.jpg"
image: "img/e.jpg"
date:   2018-08-04(reading time 3 minutes) 06:12:12
---

---

Few days ago my summer vacations ended. It was quite a fun time learning new stuff. Here is a brief description of what all I did for my first summer break at IIT Kharagpur.

The first month of the vacations I was at campus itself as I am a part of KRSSG as an AI team member for the Humanoid Team.
 
My basic aim their was to code and optimize strategies for **Multi Agent Autonomously Coordinated Soccer Playing Humanoid Bots** known as **Naobots**. Each Naobot has 22 joints to which appropriate torques are applied using codes so they can perform premilinary actions like kicking , getting up and walking. Based on these actions formally known as **Skills** we develop strategies for co-ordination between 11 such bots and shape it into an autonomously led soccer game. On my behalf I optimized the present strategies and added some new ones . The basic aim there was to minimize the execution time and develop minimilastic approach to every complex strategy so as to improve reflexes of the bots.

I also worked on was that of development of new skills . Using **Motion Editor** which is basically a platform where you can apply appropriate angles to the joints in a particular time frame. From my side these angles were hard coded so as to make a skill as I had absolutely no idea of ML back then. These hard coded skills were later optimized using **CMA-ES** algorithm by my seniors.

The campus at that time had become a chilly place my hall (LBS) which was a place that almost never slept during normal days was way to quite . Things changed a lot during summers almost every day I slept when sun rose and went for 4 a.m. snacks at cheddis. Watched a lot of movies and started watching TV series. 

Later on 4th of July I returned back to my home and process of learning stepped a gear or two down . I started my course on ML (Yes none other than Andrew NG) and started doing random competitive coding . I wanted to explore as many things I could . I developed my own **Jekyll** blog website and learnt basic CSS and HTML in process. I also learnt that the themes for Ubuntu were also in CSS and therefore tweaked my 
desktop accordingly.

I read parts of *Pro-Git* and wrote my first technical blog and got it published under KOSS publication on medium. Here is the [**link**](https://blog.kossiitkgp.in/git-cheatsheet-67ddd8cbbe94). Later I also started an Algorithms course parallel to the ML one and tried to code the algorithms as I studied them. 

I learnt Basic linear regression model of Machine learning and the math behind it as far as I could , the concepts of underfitting and over-fitting , logistic regression model, and Neural-networks . After this I switched over to CS231N and learned the K Nearest Neighbour Algorithm and its utilities .This course is still at hand now. In algorithms I went through randomly and did maze solving using BFS and DFS. Used Dijkstra , A* and RRT for some pathplanning in random image samples. Later I organized it a little bit and I am still doing the Algorithms Course.

Finally the vacations ended and I back to Kharagpur.The thing I regret the most is that I should have done a little more on the practical side and tried software development and focussed more on one thing rather than trying all in bits . 
